Module
As the processing power of computers has increased, the world has become able to capture the large amounts of data that it produces. Surveys, transactions, and observations are captured every hour of every day. A data scientist has the skills to capture, organize, and analyze large amounts of data and look for patterns, trends, and statistical relevance between datasets. Since the possibilities of data analysis are endless, programming languages are used to write customized software to analyze data. Some languages, like R, were designed specifically for data analysis. Libraries like Pandas, Polars, NumPy, Matplotlib, Scrapy, BeautifulSoup, and TensorFlow provide the capabilities to do the analysis with the familar Python programming language.

You can read more from sites such as the following:

Data Science—Wikipedia (open collaboration site)

Overview of Pandas (official site)

R Programming Language (official site)

Unique Requirements & Stretch Challenges
Write software to analyze a set of data. The following 5 things must be done:
Find or create a dataset that interests you.

Use software to analyze and answer two questions about the data.

Software analysis should include a filter.

Software analysis should include a sort.

Software analysis should include an aggregation.

You can also use this module to explore Machine Learning. You may need to modify some of the requirements if you study machine learning instead.

Stretch Challenges (select one):

Update your software so it draws a graph showing some of the results.

Identify a third question from your dataset and write code to answer it.

Guidance
You should consider using Python and Pandas for this module. You should also consider using Kaggle to obtain a free dataset. Here are some useful notes when using this suggested environment:

You need to install Pandas on your computer. You can use pip to install: pip install pandas.

You can download a dataset from Kaggle.com. You should look for a dataset that has good documentation, which will help you understand the data.

Here is a list of websites that you might find useful when working in the suggested environment:

Pandas 10 Minute Tutorial (official site)

Pandas Getting Started Tutorials (official site)

Pandas Example with Titanic Data (tutorial site)

Exploratory Data Analysis with Pandas (tutorial site)
